tipsNtricks.md, before:

## Firefox
1. [**AdBlock**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/adblock-plus/) - Blocks annoying video ads on YouTube, Facebook ads, banners and much more.
2. [**FoxyProxy**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/foxyproxy-standard/) - Plugin to quickly change the proxy.
3. [**TabGroups**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/tab-groups-panorama/) - Plugin to view all opened tabs like in Safari.
4. [**Disable `Ctrl + Q`**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/disable-ctrl-q-shortcut/) - disable the shortcut to close all the tabs.
5. **`Ctrl + Shift + T`** - restore last tab closed.
6. **`Ctrl + Shift + E`** - group tabs view
7. [**VideoDownloadHelper**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/video-downloadhelper/) - Download video files, from any website
8. [**DownThemAll**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/downthemall/) - Download manager for firefox
9. [**Firebug**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/firebug/) - Development tools for firefox, edit, debug, and monitor CSS, HTML, and JavaScript live in any web page
10. [**JsonView**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/jsonview/) - Parses json string into objects and arrays.
11. [**FireQuery**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/firequery/) - Firebug plugin for jQuery development
12. [**Hide Caption Titlebar Plus**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/hide-caption-titlebar-plus-sma/) - Hide titlebar in firefox. Maximize your screen space by adjusting Firefox window TitleBar, borders, Tabs, Toolbars, etc!

## Chrome
1. [**Folder upload option**](http://lifehacker.com/5952508/upload-folders-to-google-drive-faster-by-drag-and-dropping-them-into-chrome) - Upload complete forlders by dragging and droping into chrome, not available in firefox
2. [**Prophet**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/prophet/alikckkmddkoooodkchoheabgakpopmg?hl=en) - extension to find email ids of people from LinkedIn
3. [**Postman**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman/fhbjgbiflinjbdggehcddcbncdddomop?hl=en) - Make different types of request on URL which are not possible through browser like delete, put, post etc. Must have when you are building an API
4. [**Proxy switcher**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/proxy-switchysharp/dpplabbmogkhghncfbfdeeokoefdjegm?hl=en) - extension to quickly change the proxy.
5. [**Save to Pocket**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/save-to-pocket/niloccemoadcdkdjlinkgdfekeahmflj?hl=en) - Save articles directly to Pocket read later service from chrome.
6. [**Be Limitless**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/be-limitless/jdpnljppdhjpafeaokemhcggofohekbp?hl=en) - Beautiful dashboard to easily identify where your time is spent and gives productivity.
7. [**Momentum**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/momentum/laookkfknpbbblfpciffpaejjkokdgca?hl=en) - Another beautiful dashboard featuring todo, weather, and inspiration
8. [**Hola Free VPN**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/unlimited-free-vpn-hola/gkojfkhlekighikafcpjkiklfbnlmeio?hl=en) - Access blocked website, youtube videos.

### Common to Both Browsers
1. **Incognito mode** - Private browsing `Ctrl + Shift + N`(Chrome), `Ctrl + Shift + P`(Firefox)
2. **Push Bullet** ([*Chrome*](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/pushbullet/chlffgpmiacpedhhbkiomidkjlcfhogd?hl=en)) ([*Firefox*](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/pushbullet/)) - Sync media, messages across multiple devices.

## Websites
1. [**Cyro.se**](http://cyro.se/), [**khatrimaza**](http://khatrimaza.org/), [**Couchtuner**](http://www.couchtuner.ag/), [**Shush**](https://www.shush.se/), [**KissAnime**](https://kissanime.to/) - Get all the tv series and movies in HD.
2. [**StackOverflow**](http://stackoverflow.com/), [**StackExchange**](http://stackexchange.com/) - Best QA sites
3. [**GeeksforGeeks**](http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/) - Learn algorithms and data structures
4. [**InterviewBit**](https://www.interviewbit.com/) - For programming interview preparation. ***Complete this before starting of the final year for excellent placements***
5. [**Bitport.io**](https://bitport.io/), [**Seedr.cc**](https://www.seedr.cc/) - 2GB of torrent direct download
6. [**Appxv**](https://appxv.com/) - get free paid apps for Android
7.  [**https://it-ebooks.info/-**](https://it-ebooks.info/-) Download free ebooks.
8. **Filehippo.com** - Get all software for free.
9. **Slack** - Group chat for projects
10. **Quora, Reddit** - sites to read interesting content and get your queries answered.
11. **Search for “index of serial” on Google** - you would get one click download option in the results.
12. **Ideone** - online code editor.
13. [**Oduso**](https://oduso.com/) - install multiple application in one go, using scripts made by this site.
14. **Tlk.io** - site to create a chat room and chat anonymously or sign-in.
15. **IRC** - chat site for professionals.
16. **Pushbullet** - cross platform notification sharing
17. **Github student’s account, gist, bitbucket**
18. **Weiyun, Dropbox, MegaShare, GooglePhotos** - 1 TB cloud storage
19. **Urbandictionary** - get the meaning of each and every slang/shortform used today.
20. **Xdadevelopers.com** - everything related to android.
21. **Heroku, AWS, hostinger** - hosting serivies for your projects
22. **Koding.com**
23. **Stumbleupon** - explore web new pages based on likes and dislikes and save pages.
24. **Google forms** - create simple and user friendly forms for submission of entries.
25. **Feedly** - RSS feed aggregator
26. **Ssyoutube** - download youtube videos.
27. **Pininterest**
28. **Tripoto** - Trip experience sharing site **(TripLived android app)**
29. **Music.cliggo.com** - Provides music from youtube (app also)
30. **Requestmaker.com** - like postman but online.
31. **www.codinghorror.com** - Blog of stackoverflow co founder Jeff
32. [*https://bento.io/*](https://bento.io/) - Shows you the links and paths of various tools and languages.
33. **Watch video in youtube without login:** nsfwyoutube.com/link
34. **SecurityKiss.com**
35. **http://www.linuxcommand.org** -This site gets you familiar with linux terminal commands.(Beginners should definitely visit this.)
36. **blackboxrepack.com** - Download games in one click
37. [**kumpulbagi.id**](http://kumpulbagi.id/)- Download music,movies,games.
38. [**8tracks.com**](http://8tracks.com/)- Make and discover playlists.
39. [**10minutemail.com**](http://10minutemail.com/10MinuteMail/index.html)- To avoid spam create a temporary email.
40. [**codepen.io**](http://codepen.io/)- Edit HTML,CSS,JS online. Playground for front end web development.

## Single Page Web Application
1. [*HasteBin*](http://hastebin.com/about.md) (Open Source Paste Bin )
2. gluPaste (glug nith paste bin )
3. [*VolaFile*](https://volafile.io/) (Live File Sharing and chat)
4. [*http://www.koding.com/*](http://www.koding.com/)
5. [*Talky*](https://talky.io/) (Google Hangout without registration)
6. Flask.io (To do list without registration)
7. Pen.io (Write Blog without registration)
8. Rainy mood -  [*soundrown.com*](https://soundrown.com/) like sites. Listen any youtube video in rainymood:
    1. just open the video on youtube
    2. Replace the www.youtube.com/... link as www.rainymood.com/...
    3. e.g.: Your youtubevideo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NTHz9ephYTw.Change it to: https://www.rainymood.com/watch?v=NTHz9ephYTw and here you go!!
    4. 4.For more information visit : (http://rainymood.com/howto.html)
    9.  [*Codeshare*](https://codeshare.io/) - Share live code editor without registration

## Linux Software and Utilities
1. **Guake** - Drop down terminal
2. **Pidgin** - Chat client
3. **Proxychains** - work behind proxy easily4. **Polipo** - tunnel to http proxy
5. **Terminator** - advanced linux terminal
6. **Genymotion** - Fastest Android emulator.
7. **Xdm** - Xtreme Download Manager like IDM but free.
8. **Conky, Docky** - Lightweight system monitor and dock
9. **Gimp** - photo editing software in linux.
10. **Tor Browser** - Anonymous web browsing, bypass proxy.11. **Sublime, Atom, VS Code editor**
12. **Wine** - open windows files and softwares in linux
13. **PlayOnLinux:** windows files in linux
14. **Ssh** - get inside another person’s computer
15. **SSH shuttle** - no proxy SSH tunneling
16. **Creating an ad-hoc**
17. **Privoxy** - Routing everything via tor
18. **VPN** - network manager, open VPN
19. **Synaptic package manager**
20. **Synapse Launcher** - keystroke launcher, open applications, files using ust keyboard
21. **Zsh** - an alternative to bash, but much better
22. **Virtual Box** - run another OS within a OS
23. **MegaSync** - Mega client to sync files with MEGA cloud storage24. **Byobu / tmux** - Terminal multiplexers
25. **Gparted** - Partition editor for graphically managing your disk partition
26. **Unetbootin, YUMI** - Live USB creator
27. **Kde-connection manager/creating hotspot(not ad hoc)**
28. **Samba** - sharing files/folder in linux
29. **Variety** - automatically change wallpapers for linux. The source of wallpapers can be customized.
30. **Crontab:** Scheduling events
31. **Apptik** - A Tool to Backup/Restore Your Favourite PPAs and Apps in Ubuntu
32. **TestDisk** Data Recovery
33. **Software For Recovery of data** - Grsync, pybackup
34. __Kodi__ - Complete home theater solution
35. **ppa:noobslab** - Best linux themes
36. **Angry IP scanner** - Scan IP subnets
37. **gnome-tweak-tool** - Tweak gnome
38. Ambiance - rainy mood alternative for desktop
39. Screen - used on a remote server to create multiple terminals
40. **Easy Stroke Gesture recorder** -  control your desktop using mouse gestures
41. [__fzf__](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) - a genral purpose command line fuzzy finder, install it nd press `Ctrl + R` or `Ctrl + T` or `ALT + C` in terminal to see the magic.

## Windows softwares and unilities
1. **Putty** - ssh tunnelling in windows.
2. **Rainmeter** - cool themes for windows
3. **Cygwin** - Linux like environment for windows
4. **Bitvise SSH server** - Create free SSH server
5. **Open VPN**
6. **Git bash** - git command line interface for Windows
7. **Ext2explorer**
8. **Virtual Box, VMware** - run different OS in windows.
9. **Proxyfire**
10. **Privoxy** - Routing everything via tor
11. **Saavn,Gaana , Elpis, Audials** - Songs related apps
12. **LastPas** - Stores password
13. **IDM** - Download Manager, faster than browser downloader.
14. **Universal USB installer** - create bootable pendrives
15. **Visual Code** - Code editor
16. **Creating an ad-hoc**
17. **Netscan** - easily detect which systems on LAN are open.
18. **Ease US partiion manager and recovery** - recovers partition and changes the partition length.
19. **Format Factory** - convert any format to any format
20. **Visual Studio Community Edition** - Best C/C++ ide for MS Windows
21. [**Everything**](https://www.voidtools.com/) - Super fast Desktop search engine
22. [**Team Viewer**](https://www.teamviewer.com/) - Desktop sharing application

## IOS
1. **Get wifi working in iphones** - Add gdr.local to the search domain of the network connected after adding the proxy.
2. **Alienblue** - reddit app
3. **iMusic** - Automatically saves youtube video once played.
4. **Fing** - Scan services n all the devices that are connected to the same network as your phone(iPhone).

## Android applications
1. **OpenVPN Connect** - connect to VPN from your phone
2. **CamScanner** - Take photos of documents and save them as pdfs
3. **Wunderlist, Any.do** - Managing todo lists.
4. **Merriam-webster** - offline dictionary
5. **Evernote** - Write, manage and sync notes
6. **Hooks** - Notification alerts for various events like sports, youtube, tv shows, earthquakes, scores etc.
7. **If** - automation app. Defining events which trigger different events like when add a contact save it to google spreadsheet.
8. **Moneyview **
9. **KingRoot** - root your phone(at your own risk).
10. **Google Keep** - Write, manage and sync notes
11. **Chromer** - open links in floating windows
12. **Define** - word meanings from any app
13. **Dropbox, Mega** - Cloud storage services
14. **JotterPad** - for writing in markdown, with dropbox support
15. **LastPass** - Save passwords
16. **Pocket** - save articles to read later, even offline
17. **Airdroid, WiFi File Transfer** - sync between phone and laptop.
18. **Rotation Control** - force a certain rotation on android
19. **Greenify** - resource manager for Android.
20. **ShareIt, Xander** - File sharing service.
21. **Shazam, Sound Cloud** - detects music
22. **MusicX** - The best music player. Album arts, synced lyrics
23. **Psiphon** - Painless VPN client
24. **Forkhub** - Your git repos on your phone
25. **Cleartune** - Painlessly tune your guitar
26. **Termux** - Terminal emulator and Linux environment for Android
27. **LIfe360** - Locate your family and friends using GPS
28. **AdAway** - Block most of Ads on your phone
29. **SplitWise** - Split bills and expenses with friends

## Linux commands and shortcuts
1. **ps -el | grep &lt;application name&gt;** - to get the process id of the process.
2. **Kill -9 pid** - to kill the process whose pid can be obtained from the previous command.
3. **Killall &lt;process\_name&gt;** - to kill all the running process
4. **Nohup &lt;command&gt; &** - to run the command in background.
5. **fg, bg**
6. **Top** - to see which process is taking how much memory.
7. **Ctrl + R** - to search recursively
8. **Ctrl + U** - delete line
9. **Use -E to add PPA**
10. **Alt + F2** - run command with suggestions.
11. **Sudo !!** - run last command with sudo.
12. **Set brightness**
13. **Save a lot of battery** - Go to Software and Updates -&gt; Additonal Drivers and install latest stable proprietary release for NVIDIA or ATI
14. **Gnome-screenshot, shutter** - Take screenshot easily and with a lot of customization
15. **Ctrl+Prt Sc:** Screenshot without confirmation
16. **Alt+Prt S -&gt; Click on any window -&gt; Release Alt:** Screenshot of only that window
17. **Shift+Prt Sc -&gt; Select an area -&gt;Release Shift:** Screenshot of only that selected area
18. **Add alias for running softwares**
19. **Chmod, chown** - own a directory
20. **TTY**
21. **Nbtscan** - network discovery in linux
22. **Middle click** - shortcut to paste the current selected text.
23. **cd --** - to get back to previous directory.

##Mac OS X softwares and Utilities
1. [**double Twist**](https://www.doubletwist.com/desktop/)- Bidirectional app for syncing media from Android to Mac.
2. [**Spectacle**](https://www.spectacleapp.com)- Open source solution for moving and resizing windows with keyboard shortcuts.
3. [**Tomighty**](http://www.tomighty.org)- A free and open source desktop timer for the Pomodoro Technique available for both mac and windows
4. [**Transmission**](http://www.transmissionbt.com)- A fast,easy,and free bit torrent client.
5. [**Unarchiver**](http://wakaba.c3.cx/s/apps/unarchiver.html)- Compress/Uncompress apps. Supported file formats-  Zip, Tar-GZip, Tar-BZip2, RAR, 7-zip, LhA, StuffIt and many other old and obscure formats.
6. [**Asepsis**](http://asepsis.binaryage.com)- get rid of annoying DS_store files. Prevent them from being created anywhere in the system.
7. [**Cheatsheet**](https://www.grandtotal.biz/CheatSheet/)- Just hold the ⌘-Key a bit longer to get a list of all active short cuts of the current application.
8. [**iTerm2**](https://www.iterm2.com/)- Replacement for Mac OS terminal with functionality similar to Guake and Terminator.

Commit message:

added Zeta Uploader and link for gluPaste.

tipsNtricks.md, after:

## Firefox
1. [**AdBlock**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/adblock-plus/) - Blocks annoying video ads on YouTube, Facebook ads, banners and much more.
2. [**FoxyProxy**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/foxyproxy-standard/) - Plugin to quickly change the proxy.
3. [**TabGroups**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/tab-groups-panorama/) - Plugin to view all opened tabs like in Safari.
4. [**Disable `Ctrl + Q`**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/disable-ctrl-q-shortcut/) - disable the shortcut to close all the tabs.
5. **`Ctrl + Shift + T`** - restore last tab closed.
6. **`Ctrl + Shift + E`** - group tabs view
7. [**VideoDownloadHelper**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/video-downloadhelper/) - Download video files, from any website
8. [**DownThemAll**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/downthemall/) - Download manager for firefox
9. [**Firebug**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/firebug/) - Development tools for firefox, edit, debug, and monitor CSS, HTML, and JavaScript live in any web page
10. [**JsonView**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/jsonview/) - Parses json string into objects and arrays.
11. [**FireQuery**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/firequery/) - Firebug plugin for jQuery development
12. [**Hide Caption Titlebar Plus**](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/hide-caption-titlebar-plus-sma/) - Hide titlebar in firefox. Maximize your screen space by adjusting Firefox window TitleBar, borders, Tabs, Toolbars, etc!

## Chrome
1. [**Folder upload option**](http://lifehacker.com/5952508/upload-folders-to-google-drive-faster-by-drag-and-dropping-them-into-chrome) - Upload complete forlders by dragging and droping into chrome, not available in firefox
2. [**Prophet**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/prophet/alikckkmddkoooodkchoheabgakpopmg?hl=en) - extension to find email ids of people from LinkedIn
3. [**Postman**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman/fhbjgbiflinjbdggehcddcbncdddomop?hl=en) - Make different types of request on URL which are not possible through browser like delete, put, post etc. Must have when you are building an API
4. [**Proxy switcher**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/proxy-switchysharp/dpplabbmogkhghncfbfdeeokoefdjegm?hl=en) - extension to quickly change the proxy.
5. [**Save to Pocket**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/save-to-pocket/niloccemoadcdkdjlinkgdfekeahmflj?hl=en) - Save articles directly to Pocket read later service from chrome.
6. [**Be Limitless**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/be-limitless/jdpnljppdhjpafeaokemhcggofohekbp?hl=en) - Beautiful dashboard to easily identify where your time is spent and gives productivity.
7. [**Momentum**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/momentum/laookkfknpbbblfpciffpaejjkokdgca?hl=en) - Another beautiful dashboard featuring todo, weather, and inspiration
8. [**Hola Free VPN**](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/unlimited-free-vpn-hola/gkojfkhlekighikafcpjkiklfbnlmeio?hl=en) - Access blocked website, youtube videos.

### Common to Both Browsers
1. **Incognito mode** - Private browsing `Ctrl + Shift + N`(Chrome), `Ctrl + Shift + P`(Firefox)
2. **Push Bullet** ([*Chrome*](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/pushbullet/chlffgpmiacpedhhbkiomidkjlcfhogd?hl=en)) ([*Firefox*](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/pushbullet/)) - Sync media, messages across multiple devices.

## Websites
1. [**Cyro.se**](http://cyro.se/), [**khatrimaza**](http://khatrimaza.org/), [**Couchtuner**](http://www.couchtuner.ag/), [**Shush**](https://www.shush.se/), [**KissAnime**](https://kissanime.to/) - Get all the tv series and movies in HD.
2. [**StackOverflow**](http://stackoverflow.com/), [**StackExchange**](http://stackexchange.com/) - Best QA sites
3. [**GeeksforGeeks**](http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/) - Learn algorithms and data structures
4. [**InterviewBit**](https://www.interviewbit.com/) - For programming interview preparation. ***Complete this before starting of the final year for excellent placements***
5. [**Bitport.io**](https://bitport.io/), [**Seedr.cc**](https://www.seedr.cc/) - 2GB of torrent direct download
6. [**Appxv**](https://appxv.com/) - get free paid apps for Android
7.  [**https://it-ebooks.info/-**](https://it-ebooks.info/-) Download free ebooks.
8. **Filehippo.com** - Get all software for free.
9. **Slack** - Group chat for projects
10. **Quora, Reddit** - sites to read interesting content and get your queries answered.
11. **Search for “index of serial” on Google** - you would get one click download option in the results.
12. **Ideone** - online code editor.
13. [**Oduso**](https://oduso.com/) - install multiple application in one go, using scripts made by this site.
14. **Tlk.io** - site to create a chat room and chat anonymously or sign-in.
15. **IRC** - chat site for professionals.
16. **Pushbullet** - cross platform notification sharing
17. **Github student’s account, gist, bitbucket**
18. **Weiyun, Dropbox, MegaShare, GooglePhotos** - 1 TB cloud storage
19. **Urbandictionary** - get the meaning of each and every slang/shortform used today.
20. **Xdadevelopers.com** - everything related to android.
21. **Heroku, AWS, hostinger** - hosting serivies for your projects
22. **Koding.com**
23. **Stumbleupon** - explore web new pages based on likes and dislikes and save pages.
24. **Google forms** - create simple and user friendly forms for submission of entries.
25. **Feedly** - RSS feed aggregator
26. **Ssyoutube** - download youtube videos.
27. **Pininterest**
28. **Tripoto** - Trip experience sharing site **(TripLived android app)**
29. **Music.cliggo.com** - Provides music from youtube (app also)
30. **Requestmaker.com** - like postman but online.
31. **www.codinghorror.com** - Blog of stackoverflow co founder Jeff
32. [*https://bento.io/*](https://bento.io/) - Shows you the links and paths of various tools and languages.
33. **Watch video in youtube without login:** nsfwyoutube.com/link
34. **SecurityKiss.com**
35. **http://www.linuxcommand.org** -This site gets you familiar with linux terminal commands.(Beginners should definitely visit this.)
36. **blackboxrepack.com** - Download games in one click
37. [**kumpulbagi.id**](http://kumpulbagi.id/)- Download music,movies,games.
38. [**8tracks.com**](http://8tracks.com/)- Make and discover playlists.
39. [**10minutemail.com**](http://10minutemail.com/10MinuteMail/index.html)- To avoid spam create a temporary email.
40. [**codepen.io**](http://codepen.io/)- Edit HTML,CSS,JS online. Playground for front end web development.
41. [**Zeta Uploader**](https://www.zeta-uploader.com/)- Zeta Uploader is a service of the Zeta Software GmbH for electronic data exchange.

## Single Page Web Application
1. [*HasteBin*](http://hastebin.com/about.md) (Open Source Paste Bin )
2. [*gluPaste*](http://glug.nith.ac.in:5000/)(glug nith paste bin )
3. [*VolaFile*](https://volafile.io/) (Live File Sharing and chat)
4. [*http://www.koding.com/*](http://www.koding.com/)
5. [*Talky*](https://talky.io/) (Google Hangout without registration)
6. Flask.io (To do list without registration)
7. Pen.io (Write Blog without registration)
8. Rainy mood -  [*soundrown.com*](https://soundrown.com/) like sites. Listen any youtube video in rainymood:
    1. just open the video on youtube
    2. Replace the www.youtube.com/... link as www.rainymood.com/...
    3. e.g.: Your youtubevideo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NTHz9ephYTw.Change it to: https://www.rainymood.com/watch?v=NTHz9ephYTw and here you go!!
    4. 4.For more information visit : (http://rainymood.com/howto.html)
    9.  [*Codeshare*](https://codeshare.io/) - Share live code editor without registration

## Linux Software and Utilities
1. **Guake** - Drop down terminal
2. **Pidgin** - Chat client
3. **Proxychains** - work behind proxy easily4. **Polipo** - tunnel to http proxy
5. **Terminator** - advanced linux terminal
6. **Genymotion** - Fastest Android emulator.
7. **Xdm** - Xtreme Download Manager like IDM but free.
8. **Conky, Docky** - Lightweight system monitor and dock
9. **Gimp** - photo editing software in linux.
10. **Tor Browser** - Anonymous web browsing, bypass proxy.11. **Sublime, Atom, VS Code editor**
12. **Wine** - open windows files and softwares in linux
13. **PlayOnLinux:** windows files in linux
14. **Ssh** - get inside another person’s computer
15. **SSH shuttle** - no proxy SSH tunneling
16. **Creating an ad-hoc**
17. **Privoxy** - Routing everything via tor
18. **VPN** - network manager, open VPN
19. **Synaptic package manager**
20. **Synapse Launcher** - keystroke launcher, open applications, files using ust keyboard
21. **Zsh** - an alternative to bash, but much better
22. **Virtual Box** - run another OS within a OS
23. **MegaSync** - Mega client to sync files with MEGA cloud storage24. **Byobu / tmux** - Terminal multiplexers
25. **Gparted** - Partition editor for graphically managing your disk partition
26. **Unetbootin, YUMI** - Live USB creator
27. **Kde-connection manager/creating hotspot(not ad hoc)**
28. **Samba** - sharing files/folder in linux
29. **Variety** - automatically change wallpapers for linux. The source of wallpapers can be customized.
30. **Crontab:** Scheduling events
31. **Apptik** - A Tool to Backup/Restore Your Favourite PPAs and Apps in Ubuntu
32. **TestDisk** Data Recovery
33. **Software For Recovery of data** - Grsync, pybackup
34. __Kodi__ - Complete home theater solution
35. **ppa:noobslab** - Best linux themes
36. **Angry IP scanner** - Scan IP subnets
37. **gnome-tweak-tool** - Tweak gnome
38. Ambiance - rainy mood alternative for desktop
39. Screen - used on a remote server to create multiple terminals
40. **Easy Stroke Gesture recorder** -  control your desktop using mouse gestures
41. [__fzf__](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) - a genral purpose command line fuzzy finder, install it nd press `Ctrl + R` or `Ctrl + T` or `ALT + C` in terminal to see the magic.

## Windows softwares and unilities
1. **Putty** - ssh tunnelling in windows.
2. **Rainmeter** - cool themes for windows
3. **Cygwin** - Linux like environment for windows
4. **Bitvise SSH server** - Create free SSH server
5. **Open VPN**
6. **Git bash** - git command line interface for Windows
7. **Ext2explorer**
8. **Virtual Box, VMware** - run different OS in windows.
9. **Proxyfire**
10. **Privoxy** - Routing everything via tor
11. **Saavn,Gaana , Elpis, Audials** - Songs related apps
12. **LastPas** - Stores password
13. **IDM** - Download Manager, faster than browser downloader.
14. **Universal USB installer** - create bootable pendrives
15. **Visual Code** - Code editor
16. **Creating an ad-hoc**
17. **Netscan** - easily detect which systems on LAN are open.
18. **Ease US partiion manager and recovery** - recovers partition and changes the partition length.
19. **Format Factory** - convert any format to any format
20. **Visual Studio Community Edition** - Best C/C++ ide for MS Windows
21. [**Everything**](https://www.voidtools.com/) - Super fast Desktop search engine
22. [**Team Viewer**](https://www.teamviewer.com/) - Desktop sharing application

## IOS
1. **Get wifi working in iphones** - Add gdr.local to the search domain of the network connected after adding the proxy.
2. **Alienblue** - reddit app
3. **iMusic** - Automatically saves youtube video once played.
4. **Fing** - Scan services n all the devices that are connected to the same network as your phone(iPhone).

## Android applications
1. **OpenVPN Connect** - connect to VPN from your phone
2. **CamScanner** - Take photos of documents and save them as pdfs
3. **Wunderlist, Any.do** - Managing todo lists.
4. **Merriam-webster** - offline dictionary
5. **Evernote** - Write, manage and sync notes
6. **Hooks** - Notification alerts for various events like sports, youtube, tv shows, earthquakes, scores etc.
7. **If** - automation app. Defining events which trigger different events like when add a contact save it to google spreadsheet.
8. **Moneyview **
9. **KingRoot** - root your phone(at your own risk).
10. **Google Keep** - Write, manage and sync notes
11. **Chromer** - open links in floating windows
12. **Define** - word meanings from any app
13. **Dropbox, Mega** - Cloud storage services
14. **JotterPad** - for writing in markdown, with dropbox support
15. **LastPass** - Save passwords
16. **Pocket** - save articles to read later, even offline
17. **Airdroid, WiFi File Transfer** - sync between phone and laptop.
18. **Rotation Control** - force a certain rotation on android
19. **Greenify** - resource manager for Android.
20. **ShareIt, Xander** - File sharing service.
21. **Shazam, Sound Cloud** - detects music
22. **MusicX** - The best music player. Album arts, synced lyrics
23. **Psiphon** - Painless VPN client
24. **Forkhub** - Your git repos on your phone
25. **Cleartune** - Painlessly tune your guitar
26. **Termux** - Terminal emulator and Linux environment for Android
27. **LIfe360** - Locate your family and friends using GPS
28. **AdAway** - Block most of Ads on your phone
29. **SplitWise** - Split bills and expenses with friends

## Linux commands and shortcuts
1. **ps -el | grep &lt;application name&gt;** - to get the process id of the process.
2. **Kill -9 pid** - to kill the process whose pid can be obtained from the previous command.
3. **Killall &lt;process\_name&gt;** - to kill all the running process
4. **Nohup &lt;command&gt; &** - to run the command in background.
5. **fg, bg**
6. **Top** - to see which process is taking how much memory.
7. **Ctrl + R** - to search recursively
8. **Ctrl + U** - delete line
9. **Use -E to add PPA**
10. **Alt + F2** - run command with suggestions.
11. **Sudo !!** - run last command with sudo.
12. **Set brightness**
13. **Save a lot of battery** - Go to Software and Updates -&gt; Additonal Drivers and install latest stable proprietary release for NVIDIA or ATI
14. **Gnome-screenshot, shutter** - Take screenshot easily and with a lot of customization
15. **Ctrl+Prt Sc:** Screenshot without confirmation
16. **Alt+Prt S -&gt; Click on any window -&gt; Release Alt:** Screenshot of only that window
17. **Shift+Prt Sc -&gt; Select an area -&gt;Release Shift:** Screenshot of only that selected area
18. **Add alias for running softwares**
19. **Chmod, chown** - own a directory
20. **TTY**
21. **Nbtscan** - network discovery in linux
22. **Middle click** - shortcut to paste the current selected text.
23. **cd --** - to get back to previous directory.

##Mac OS X softwares and Utilities
1. [**double Twist**](https://www.doubletwist.com/desktop/)- Bidirectional app for syncing media from Android to Mac.
2. [**Spectacle**](https://www.spectacleapp.com)- Open source solution for moving and resizing windows with keyboard shortcuts.
3. [**Tomighty**](http://www.tomighty.org)- A free and open source desktop timer for the Pomodoro Technique available for both mac and windows
4. [**Transmission**](http://www.transmissionbt.com)- A fast,easy,and free bit torrent client.
5. [**Unarchiver**](http://wakaba.c3.cx/s/apps/unarchiver.html)- Compress/Uncompress apps. Supported file formats-  Zip, Tar-GZip, Tar-BZip2, RAR, 7-zip, LhA, StuffIt and many other old and obscure formats.
6. [**Asepsis**](http://asepsis.binaryage.com)- get rid of annoying DS_store files. Prevent them from being created anywhere in the system.
7. [**Cheatsheet**](https://www.grandtotal.biz/CheatSheet/)- Just hold the ⌘-Key a bit longer to get a list of all active short cuts of the current application.
8. [**iTerm2**](https://www.iterm2.com/)- Replacement for Mac OS terminal with functionality similar to Guake and Terminator.
